And it's a food is a fascinating thing to me because, uh,
I mean, I guess this is a good time to bring it up as any, um, you know,
obviously Anthony Bordain took his life last week and,
um, he was a friend of mine and it was a real, that was real hard.
Friday was real hard. I woke up and, um, I got a text from my friend,
Maynard from tool, um,
maintenance said so much for the keen in versus Bordain celebrity jiu-jitsu
match. Ah, and, and, and he's like. And I was like,
oh no, what does that mean? Yeah. And so then I Googled it and I saw it.
I was like, oh, man. I can't what? Yeah.
Just what, what hung himself? Like what?
Yeah.
I don't know.
Did you know his demons?
I was friends with them. Hung out with them, got up with them. Did.
You get a feeling that he had that.
In him? I didn't know that, but what was really weird was like,
he had been saying really recently that he'd never been happier.
He was talking about his girlfriend and saying that it never been happier.
Didn't know he could be that happy.
Didn't know someone could make him that happen. Oh man. I'm so terrible. Well,
who knows? I mean, they might've, they might've broken up. Who knows?
I don't know. I mean, who knows? I don't know. I don't know. I don't,
I don't know. I mean sometimes, sometimes people,
when they say I've never been that happy,
you're catching them on these ups and downs. You know, some people, some people,
you know, people get manic. Right. I don't know if he was, but some people get,
they get up and down. I'll tell you what he, he liked to get up. Yeah.
You know, like he liked to drink. Yeah. You know, and he enjoyed it.
It was, it was something that he enjoyed. Yeah. But we, um,
we did an episode of this show.
We went hunting for pheasants in Montana and we cooked
over this campfire. He cooked fantastic. And really,
and uh,
then afterwards we drank whiskey and smoke weed and he
goes deep. He goes deep. Really? Where I'm sitting down,
I'm like, I'm going to just try to catch myself real at the world, spinning.
Deep breath, deep breath.
He's like, where's the weed. It's like, they just kept going.
He just kept going.
Well, I knew he drank, I didn't know. He, he smoked weed. Yeah.
Yeah. He, um, he had a heroin problem when he was younger. Um,
and he kicked it, but, uh, he didn't feel the need to just be sober. Yeah.
That was kind of interesting about them.
That's a, that's a thing. Right. When people get sober from a drug,
they feel like they have to get sober from everything that did not feel like
that. And he, by the way, like he would drink.
But when he was home, like with his kid and he was homeless,
he didn't drink at all. Like he would only do that.
He would only do that when he be on the road. Right.
So he'd be going to show these stretches of time and he didn't drink at all.
And he was addicted. Did you Jitsu? It was, that was a really, yeah.
He was doing jujitsu like literally every day when I was hanging around with
him, he was, um, he went, we were in Montana.
He went to Bozeman to find a local jiu-jitsu club and trained with them in
the morning. She was trained with everybody. I never,
I hardly ever did that on the road, find a place.
I would just go to the gym and work out. He wouldn't, but he was so into,
uh, learning and getting better at jujitsu.
Ah, do you know if he was on prescription for depression or anything like that?
That's what I'm so suspicious of.
Like when you heard of like Robin Williams and Chris Cornell.
Yeah. There's like he was on anti-anxiety medication, anti-anxiety medications,
a big one.
Stuff like it even, you know, in there, you know,
in their long list of side-effects, it's always suicidal thoughts.
And then if you mix it with other things like alcohol and this,
and I don't know at all who was on what,
but it seems what bothers me is that it's not part of the conversation.
Well, Robin is a different take because Robin had Lewy body disease.
Um, he had a heart attack. He had significant issues with that. Um,
my friend, Dr. Mark Gordon actually wrote a paper about, um,
long term anesthesia. Um, like when you're an under,
not the long-term, but like long duration for things like open-heart surgery,
right. That there's a high instance of depression afterwards. And,
um, uh,
a lot of people coming out of these big time operations where you
get anesthesia for long periods of time and have significant dips in their
hormone levels afterwards, it's very, you know,
it's not like a free ride getting put under and having your heart opened
up. And I mean, your body goes through massive trauma. Your body's like, holy.
We just had our chest plate split open and all your heart gets
worked on.
And we're inside of us. Yeah.
And there's a significant, um,
correlation in Marc Gordon's opinion between depression.
Uh post-surgery post-surgery depression.
And I think it's something that people need to look at. He had that obviously,
cause he, he did have, um, heart surgery.
For a long period of time, the depression last after that.
Cause I know people get, I always thought it was just a mental thing of like,
you know,
surviving something like I remember Letterman on a show like weeping and like
bringing his staff on and stuff. I always, I didn't know.
It was a hormone thing. I was thought it was just the trauma of surviving that.
It can be both. I mean, I'm sure. I mean, I'm obviously no doctor,
but he was, I'd say you're closer to a garbage man,
but he was, uh, explaining it to me. Um, the,
that there is an issue with this. Right.
And so Robin had that and he had some serious
neurological disorders and um, and there was,
there's quite a few other things too. Right.
They're also complicated.
Yeah. And then whatever medications, this is the thing, right?
Like what are these meds what's on? You know, you don't, you really don't know.
But, um, Chester from Lincoln park, uh, he was on a load of things.
And uh, he was, but he was very troubled me.
He was a guy that was, he had some real problems,
but he was also very medicated.
I mean, look,
we have the highest suicide rate among middle-aged people in America than
ever like the numbers, the numbers are through the roof.
And there's also this pharmaceutical opioid crisis at the same time.
And I just feel like, you know,
people are on this that's really affects your head
and your mood. And it says right in it, like, you know,
I remember I had a friend whose brother was a depressed and this was, you know,
in the eighties when we were kids and the,
the game, lack of a better word of trying to get the right medicine for him.
Cause when they, when they prescribed the wrong one, things got out of hand,
I mean like really dangerously out of hand.
And then they finally find the right med for him. And then he kinda of up.
No, there's no like obvious path. Yeah. Like the,
the problem is it's like, say if you have a,
some particular type of infection, they give you antibiotics. If you have,
you know, poison Ivy, they,
they know what kind of cortisone cream to put on you or what have you, when,
when you're depressed.
So there's just so many different factors involved in depression.
There's your actual life, right? There's what's going on in your life?
Like, are you taking care of your body? Are you exercising?
Do you have loving relationships with your family and close friends?
Or do you feel distant and detached? You know, do you,
do you not have anyone in your life like romantically?
Do you not have a job that you enjoy?
All those things factor into the way you feel about life and from.
The time you were a kid sure. Your.
Whole life, oh, your whole life. And then on top of that,
you have like legitimate mental illness, right.
And then you have depression because your brain is not producing enough
serotonin or dopamine.
And there's so many factors and people try to self-medicate and you know,
I know a lot of people try to do it with, uh,
extra exercise apparently seems to be as effective or more effective than
most SSRI and antidepressants.
I heard that. I don't know if I'm right,
but I remember hearing that whatever your body manufacturers or secretes,
when you exercise is similar to what a lot of these drugs have in
the.
Um, well, you definitely get runners high, right? Lenders high, you actually,
um, your runner's high.
I don't know the exact mechanisms involved,
but it has something to do with the cannabinoid.
So it literally gives you a high that's similar to almost like a marijuana hot.
Right. You.
Know? Yeah. You get your euphoric.
Oh yeah. You get like, I love it. I love it.
And just feel even when, even if it's not identified for me as a high, like,
like smoking weed, my whole rest of my day is better.
Like there is definitely, there's a happy little thing going on. That's,
you know, I'm not flying,
but I'm definitely not balled up and anxious the way I was before the run.
Balled up an anxious thing. I have my own theory about that.
I think the human body has physical requirements.
And I think if you don't just because of the design of it,
the fact that human beings have lived for thousands and thousands of years,
either hunting or gathering or running away from danger or your body's
like constantly in action back then we essentially have the same bodies
as people that live 10,000 years ago, our DNA is very, very similar.
And I think we have all these requirements and we don't meet him.
And there's so many people that just sit down all day and that's all they do.
They walk to sit down and they sit down again.
And most of their time is sitting down,
whether they're watching television or sitting in front of their computer.
And that is terrible for.
Terrible. And you feel it, you just feel. You just, you feel bad.
I was in, uh, after the, after the Bordain news,
I was traveling, uh, outside of Chicago. And, uh,
it just kind of clicked in my head. Like, you know,
you're just thinking whenever you have someone that inspires you and especially
if your friends, like you were, uh, you know, it's just,
you can't get it out of your head kind of a thing. And you're balled up.
Anxiety is even worse.
And I just instinct instinctually got in,
put on my running shoes and just went for a run because I didn't want to sit and
think about all of it so much. And I just felt better. Like I was,
I wasn't euphoric again after the run, but I was definitely better than before.
Yeah. I feel like, especially when you're traveling and stuff like that,
but he did your Jitsu all the time. See, these are puzzles,
these are puzzles we can't solve.
Well. Yeah. Who knows? I don't know what was going on. Yeah. No.
And there's no way to ask him obviously. Um, yeah, when I,
when I traveled one of the first things I do, uh,
whether I'm coming home or going there it's work out.
And I didn't this weekend because Friday when I got there,
I'd worked out Thursday. So I'd worked out that day already.
I ran that day and then I got there Thursday night,
woke up Friday to that text and I was just like, man,
I didn't want to do anything. I cried. I felt like.
I got a bunch of phone calls from some friends.
And then I had two shows that night and I was like, I just got,
I'm just got to get on the horse for her up. And I was a little worried.
I was a little worried that I was going to be like moody or weirded out. Yeah.
But once I got there, I was fine.
And I was with the Santino and Tony Hinchcliffe. Nice.
So those two guys are great. Yeah. Just out of fun time,
we talked a little bit about it and smoked a little weed. Nice.
Got up there and just had some fun.
The energy of that crowd.
I saw your Instagram of the crowd and that's such a beautiful theater.
That's an amazing theater. You can't have it.
It'd be tough to be depressed and doing a show there with all those fans and
saying.
Yeah, yeah, we did two shows too. They're both gray.